## Maven:

Lifecycle (default & clean & site)

Each lifecycle has its own different phases

Phases is made up of Goals, Goals are supplied by Plugin.

	Example:
	compile(phase)   compiler:compile (plugin:goal)
	test(phase)      surefie:test (plugin:goal)
	package(phase)   jar:jar (plugin:goal)

Goals are --> Maven Plugin = group of goals. Goals comprises of Tasks (specific)
			
**Default Lifecycle**

    Validate :- Validate the project is correct and all necessary information is available or not .
    Compile :- Create source code of the project.
    Test(optional) :- Test the compiled smpile yourource code using a suitable unit testing framework. These tests should not require the code be packaged or deployed.
    Package :- Take the compiled code and package it as a jar or war as per pom file and move into  target folder.
    verify – Run any checks on results of integration tests to ensure quality criteria are met.
    install – Install the package into the local repository, for use as a dependency in other projects locally. 
    deploy – Done in the build environment, copies the final package to the remote repository for sharing with other developers and projects.
    
**Clean Lifecylce**
	
    pre-clean:	execute processes needed prior to the actual project cleaning
    clean:	remove all files generated by the previous build
    post-clean:	execute processes needed to finalize the project cleaning

**Site Lifecycle**

    pre-site: 	execute processes needed prior to the actual project site generation
    site:	generate the project's site documentation
    post-site: 	execute processes needed to finalize the site generation, and to prepare for site deployment
    site-deploy:	deploy the generated site documentation to the specified web server
  
  
  
mvn dependency:tree

--> This command generates the dependency tree of the maven project.

mvn -DskipTests package

--> The skipTests system property is used to skip the unit test cases from the build cycle. We can also use -Dmaven.test.skip=true to skip the test cases execution.

mvn -q package  --> Quiet mode

mvn -X package --> debug mode
